---
layout: default
title:  "Jon-Michael Deldin: Graduate Computer Science Portfolio"
---

## Portfolio

I jumped down the computer science rabbit hole in my freshman year at
the University of Nevada-Reno. My family lived outside of the Carson
Valley, with amazing views of the Pine Nut Mountains and Sierra Nevada,
so naturally, I trekked across acres of sagebrush to photograph every
sunrise and sunset. After some time, I wanted to show my work on the Web
and set out to build a photo gallery. Finding off-the-shelf software to
be lacking, I embarked on a journey to build my own photo gallery. More
than eight years later, I still don't have a photo gallery of my own.

I am self-taught like most programmers, and I paid for food and gas
during my undergrad by building websites in my spare time (in addition
to donating plasma). Programming soon became my favorite hobby, but I
was too far into my biology and chemistry undergrad to change majors.
Once I graduated, I contemplated becoming a medical technologist, but
out of curiosity, I browsed UM's computer science catalog.
"Bioinformatics! I wasted a whole week reading about that and
cheminformatics instead of doing my organic chemistry homework". And
thus, I began the two years of prerequisites before starting a master's
in computer science.

The breadth of this program allowed me to explore a number of fields
like bioinformatics, machine learning, cryptography, data visualization,
and human-computer interaction. While I was originally interested in
bioinformatics, natural language processing and human-computer
interaction have become my primary areas of academic interest.
Professionally, I am very interested in software engineering best
practices -- delivering robust, well-tested software -- as I've worked
as a full-time programmer throughout my entire degree. For hobbyist
computing, once I graduate, I intend to pursue my backlog of data
visualization projects because it's visual (!), challenging, and
rewarding.

I'm most proud of the projects listed in the sidebar. Every graduate
project I've completed has been incredibly challenging and frustrating
at times, but the end-results are very rewarding. Through these
projects, I've learned practical skills, but I also learned how to
overcome fear of failure and to become motivated by the work itself and
not the grade at the end. It was an incredible shift in thinking from
"It's not good enough for an 'A'" to "It's not good enough for me".
Also, I will probably be guilt-ridden for the rest of my life.

After graduation, I am moving to Portland, OR, to work at
[The Clymb](http://www.theclymb.com) as an application engineer. I'm
thrilled to join such a dynamic company! I'm also looking forward to
filling my former homework-time with plenty of side learning projects.
My every-growing text file includes trying my hand at generative art,
practicing data visualization, implementing an interpreter, gaining
more practical experience with low-level multiprocessing, and working
through my copy of *Theory of Computation*.

### Committee

- [Yolanda Reimer](http://www.cas.umt.edu/casweb/faculty/FacultyDetails.cfm?id=543), Chair
- [Douglas Raiford](http://www.cs.umt.edu/~dougr)
- [Rick Hughes](http://www.umt.edu/mediaarts/people/rick-hughes)
